Brand Name:

USBrand Name:
Amino-CR

Chromacaps

Chromate

Chromax

M2 Chromium

Nia-Chrom


Description:
Chromium supplements are used to prevent or treat chromium deficiency.

The body needs chromium for normal growth and health. For patients who are unable to get enough chromium in their regular diet or who have a need for more chromium, chromium supplements may be necessary. They are generally taken by mouth but some patients may have to receive them by injection. Chromium helps your body use sugar properly. It is also needed for the breakdown of proteins and fats.

Lack of chromium may lead to nerve problems and may decrease the body's ability to use sugar properly.

There is not enough evidence to show that taking chromium supplements improves the way your body uses sugar (glucose tolerance).

Injectable chromium is given by or under the supervision of a health care professional. Other forms are available without a prescription.


Importance Of Diet:
For good health, it is important that you eat a balanced and varied diet. Follow carefully any diet program your health care professional may recommend. For your specific dietary vitamin and/or mineral needs, ask your health care professional for a list of appropriate foods. If you think that you are not getting enough vitamins and/or minerals in your diet, you may choose to take a dietary supplement.

Chromium is found in various foods, including brewer's yeast, calf liver, American cheese, and wheat germ.

The daily amount of chromium needed is defined in several different ways.


For U.S.—:
-> Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) are the amount of vitamins and minerals needed to provide for adequate nutrition in most healthy persons. RDAs for a given nutrient may vary depending on a person's age, sex, and physical condition (e.g., pregnancy).
-> Daily Values (DVs) are used on food and dietary supplement labels to indicate the percent of the recommended daily amount of each nutrient that a serving provides. DV replaces the previous designation of United States Recommended Daily Allowances (USRDAs).

For Canada—:
-> Recommended Nutrient Intakes (RNIs) are used to determine the amounts of vitamins, minerals, and protein needed to provide adequate nutrition and lessen the risk of chronic disease.
Because a lack of chromium is rare, there is no RDA or RNI for it. Normal daily recommended intakes for chromium are generally defined as follows:

-> Infants and children— Birth to 3 years of age—10 to 80 micrograms (mcg) a day. 4 to 6 years of age—30 to 120 mcg a day. 7 to 10 years of age—50 to 200 mcg a day.
-> Adolescents and adults—50 to 200 mcg a day.
-> Birth to 3 years of age—10 to 80 micrograms (mcg) a day.
-> 4 to 6 years of age—30 to 120 mcg a day.
-> 7 to 10 years of age—50 to 200 mcg a day.
This product is available in the following dosage forms:

-> Tablet
-> Capsule

Before Using:
If you are taking a dietary supplement without a prescription, carefully read and follow any precautions on the label. For these supplements, the following should be considered:


Allergies:
Tell your doctor if you have ever had any unusual or allergic reaction to medicines in this group or any other medicines. Also tell your health care professional if you have any other types of allergies, such as to foods dyes, preservatives, or animals. For non-prescription products, read the label or package ingredients carefully.


Pediatric:
Problems in children have not been reported with intake of normal daily recommended amounts.


Geriatric:
Problems in older adults have not been reported with intake of normal daily recommended amounts.


Pregnancy:
It is especially important that you are receiving enough vitamins and minerals when you become pregnant and that you continue to receive the right amount of vitamins and minerals throughout your pregnancy. The healthy growth and development of the fetus depend on a steady supply of nutrients from the mother. However, taking large amounts of a dietary supplement during pregnancy may be harmful to the mother and/or fetus and should be avoided.


Breastfeeding:
It is important that you receive the right amounts of vitamins and minerals so that your baby will also get the vitamins and minerals needed to grow properly. However, taking large amounts of a dietary supplement while breast-feeding may be harmful to the mother and/or baby and should be avoided.


Drug Interactions:
Although certain medicines should not be used together at all, in other cases two different medicines may be used together even if an interaction might occur. In these cases, your doctor may want to change the dose, or other precautions may be necessary. Tell your healthcare professional if you are taking any other prescription or nonprescription (over-the-counter [OTC]) medicine.


Other Interactions:
Certain medicines should not be used at or around the time of eating food or eating certain types of food since interactions may occur.  Using alcohol or tobacco with certain medicines may also cause interactions to occur.  Discuss with your healthcare professional the use of your medicine with food, alcohol, or tobacco.


Other Medical Problems:
The presence of other medical problems may affect the use of dietary supplements in this class. Make sure you tell your doctor if you have any other medical problems, especially:

-> Type 2 diabetes mellitus—Taking chromium supplements when you have a chromium deficiency may cause a change in the amount of insulin you need.

Proper Use:

Dosing:
The dose medicines in this class will be different for different patients. Follow your doctor's orders or the directions on the label. The following information includes only the average doses of these medicines. If your dose is different, do not change it unless your doctor tells you to do so.

The amount of medicine that you take depends on the strength of the medicine. Also, the number of doses you take each day, the time allowed between doses, and the length of time you take the medicine depend on the medical problem for which you are using the medicine.

-> For oral dosage forms (capsules and tablets): To prevent deficiency, the amount taken by mouth is based on normal daily recommended intakes: Adults and teenagers—50 to 200 micrograms (mcg) per day. Children 7 to 10 years age—50 to 200 mcg per day. Children 4 to 6 years of age—30 to 120 mcg per day. Children birth to 3 years of age—10 to 80 mcg per day. To treat deficiency: Adults, teenagers, and children—Treatment dose is determined by prescriber for each individual based on severity of deficiency.
-> To prevent deficiency, the amount taken by mouth is based on normal daily recommended intakes: Adults and teenagers—50 to 200 micrograms (mcg) per day. Children 7 to 10 years age—50 to 200 mcg per day. Children 4 to 6 years of age—30 to 120 mcg per day. Children birth to 3 years of age—10 to 80 mcg per day.
-> To treat deficiency: Adults, teenagers, and children—Treatment dose is determined by prescriber for each individual based on severity of deficiency.
-> Adults and teenagers—50 to 200 micrograms (mcg) per day.
-> Children 7 to 10 years age—50 to 200 mcg per day.
-> Children 4 to 6 years of age—30 to 120 mcg per day.
-> Children birth to 3 years of age—10 to 80 mcg per day.
-> Adults, teenagers, and children—Treatment dose is determined by prescriber for each individual based on severity of deficiency.

Missed Dose:
If you miss a dose of this medicine, take it as soon as possible. However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to your regular dosing schedule. Do not double doses.

If you miss taking chromium supplements for one or more days there is no cause for concern, since it takes some time for your body to become seriously low in chromium. However, if your health care professional has recommended that you take chromium, try to remember to take it as directed every day.


Storage:
Keep out of the reach of children.

Store the medicine in a closed container at room temperature, away from heat, moisture, and direct light. Keep from freezing.

Do not keep outdated medicine or medicine no longer needed.


Side Effects:
No side effects or overdoses have been reported for chromium. However, check with your health care professional if you notice any unusual effects while you are taking it.

Drug information provided by:

Portions of this document last updated:

Copyright: © Merative US L.P. 1973, 2025. All rights reserved. Information is for End User's use only and may not be sold, redistributed or otherwise used for commercial purposes.

-> The Mayo Clinic Diet
-> Drugs & Supplements
-> Chromium supplement (oral route, parenteral route)
CON-XXXXXXXX

Mayo Clinic does not endorse companies or products. Advertising revenue supports our non-profit mission.


Advertising & Sponsorship:
-> Policy
-> Opportunities
-> Ad Choices
Make a gift to honor and celebrate the contributions of our world-class doctors.