Brand Name:

USBrand Name:
Ajovy


Description:
Fremanezumab-vfrm injection is used to prevent migraine headaches.

This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription.

This product is available in the following dosage forms:

-> Solution

Before Using:
In deciding to use a medicine, the risks of taking the medicine must be weighed against the good it will do. This is a decision you and your doctor will make. For this medicine, the following should be considered:


Allergies:
Tell your doctor if you have ever had any unusual or allergic reaction to this medicine or any other medicines. Also tell your health care professional if you have any other types of allergies, such as to foods, dyes, preservatives, or animals. For non-prescription products, read the label or package ingredients carefully.


Pediatric:
Appropriate studies have not been performed on the relationship of age to the effects of fremanezumab-vfrm injection in the pediatric population. Safety and efficacy have not been established.


Geriatric:
Appropriate studies performed to date have not demonstrated geriatric-specific problems that would limit the usefulness of fremanezumab-vfrm injection in the elderly.


Breastfeeding:
There are no adequate studies in women for determining infant risk when using this medication during breastfeeding. Weigh the potential benefits against the potential risks before taking this medication while breastfeeding.


Drug Interactions:
Although certain medicines should not be used together at all, in other cases two different medicines may be used together even if an interaction might occur. In these cases, your doctor may want to change the dose, or other precautions may be necessary. Tell your healthcare professional if you are taking any other prescription or nonprescription (over-the-counter [OTC]) medicine.


Other Interactions:
Certain medicines should not be used at or around the time of eating food or eating certain types of food since interactions may occur.  Using alcohol or tobacco with certain medicines may also cause interactions to occur.  Discuss with your healthcare professional the use of your medicine with food, alcohol, or tobacco.


Proper Use:
A nurse or other trained health professional will give you this medicine. It is given through a needle given as a shot under your skin, usually in the stomach, thighs, or upper arm. You or your caregiver may be trained to prepare and inject this medicine at home. Be sure that you understand how to use the medicine.

If you use this medicine at home, you will be shown the body areas where this shot can be given. Use a different body area each time you give yourself a shot. Keep track of where you give each shot to make sure you rotate body areas. This will help prevent skin problems from the injections. Do not inject into skin areas that are tender, red, bruised, or hard.

This medicine comes with a patient information leaflet and patient instructions. Read and follow these instructions carefully. Ask your doctor if you have any questions.

Check the liquid in the prefilled syringe or autoinjector. It should be clear and colorless to slightly yellow. Do not use the medicine if the liquid is cloudy, discolored, or has particles in it. Do not shake.

Allow the medicine to warm to room temperature for at least 30 minutes before you use it. Do not warm it in any other way.

Do not remove the needle cap from the prefilled syringe until you are ready to use it.

You might not use all of the medicine in each prefilled syringe or autoinjector. Use each prefilled syringe and autoinjector only one time. Do not save an open syringe or autoinjector.


Dosing:
The dose of this medicine will be different for different patients. Follow your doctor's orders or the directions on the label. The following information includes only the average doses of this medicine. If your dose is different, do not change it unless your doctor tells you to do so.

The amount of medicine that you take depends on the strength of the medicine. Also, the number of doses you take each day, the time allowed between doses, and the length of time you take the medicine depend on the medical problem for which you are using the medicine.

-> For injection dosage form (solution): For migraine headaches: Adults—225 milligrams (mg) injected under the skin once a month, or 675 mg injected under the skin every 3 months. Children—Use and dose must be determined by your doctor.
-> For migraine headaches: Adults—225 milligrams (mg) injected under the skin once a month, or 675 mg injected under the skin every 3 months. Children—Use and dose must be determined by your doctor.
-> Adults—225 milligrams (mg) injected under the skin once a month, or 675 mg injected under the skin every 3 months.
-> Children—Use and dose must be determined by your doctor.

Missed Dose:
If you miss a dose of this medicine, take it as soon as possible. However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to your regular dosing schedule. Do not double doses.

Continue to use this medicine each month from the date of your last dose.


Storage:
Keep out of the reach of children.

Do not keep outdated medicine or medicine no longer needed.

Ask your healthcare professional how you should dispose of any medicine you do not use.

Store in the refrigerator. Do not freeze.

Keep the medicine in its original carton. You may store it at room temperature for up to 24 hours. After removing the medicine from the refrigerator, use it within 24 hours. Throw away any unused medicine kept at room temperature after 24 hours.

Throw away used needles in a hard, closed container where the needles cannot poke through. Keep this container away from children and pets.


Precautions:
It is very important that your doctor check your progress at regular visits  to make sure that this medicine is working properly and to check for unwanted effects.

This medicine may cause serious allergic reactions, which can be life-threatening and require immediate medical attention. Tell your doctor right away if you have a rash, itching, hoarseness, trouble breathing, trouble swallowing, or any swelling of your hands, face, or mouth after using this medicine.


Side Effects:
Along with its needed effects, a medicine may cause some unwanted effects. Although not all of these side effects may occur, if they do occur they may need medical attention.

Check with your doctor immediately  if any of the following side effects occur:


More common:
-> Fast heartbeat
-> fever
-> hives, itching, skin rash
-> hoarseness
-> irritation
-> joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
-> redness of the skin
-> swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
-> tightness in the chest
-> troubled breathing or swallowing
Some side effects may occur that usually do not need medical attention. These side effects may go away during treatment as your body adjusts to the medicine. Also, your health care professional may be able to tell you about ways to prevent or reduce some of these side effects. Check with your health care professional if any of the following side effects continue or are bothersome or if you have any questions about them:

-> Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site
Other side effects not listed may also occur in some patients. If you notice any other effects, check with your healthcare professional.

Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.

Drug information provided by:

Portions of this document last updated:

Copyright: © Merative US L.P. 1973, 2025. All rights reserved. Information is for End User's use only and may not be sold, redistributed or otherwise used for commercial purposes.

-> The Mayo Clinic Diet
-> Drugs & Supplements
-> Fremanezumab-vfrm (subcutaneous route)
CON-XXXXXXXX

Mayo Clinic does not endorse companies or products. Advertising revenue supports our non-profit mission.


Advertising & Sponsorship:
-> Policy
-> Opportunities
-> Ad Choices
Make a gift to honor and celebrate the contributions of our world-class doctors.